#DSA #Queue #Overview 
___
# What is Queue?
A ***Queue*** is a linear data structure that follows a particular order in which the operations are performed. The order may be ***FIFO(First In, First Out)***. ***FIFO*** implies that the element that is inserted first comes out first.
## Basic Terminologies of Queue

- ***Front:*** The position of the entry in a queue ready to be served, that is, the first entry that will be removed from the queue, is called the ***front*** of the queue. It is also referred to as the ***head*** of the queue.
- ***Rear:*** The position of the last entry in the queue, that is, the one most recently added, is called the ***rear*** of the queue. It is also referred to as the ***tail*** of the queue.
- ***Size:*** Size refers to the ***current*** number of elements in the queue.
- ***Capacity:*** Capacity refers to the ***maximum*** number of elements the queue can hold.
___
# Types of Queue
Queue data structure can be classified into 4 types:
1. ***Simple Queue:*** Simple Queue simply follows a ***FIFO*** Structure. We can only insert the element at the back and remove the element from the front of the queue.
2. [***Double-Ended Queue (Deque)***](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/deque-set-1-introduction-applications)***:*** In a double-ended queue the insertion and deletion operations, can be performed from both ends. They are of two types:
    - ***Input Restricted Queue:*** This is a simple queue. In this type of queue, the input can be taken from only one end but deletion can be done from any of the ends.
    - ***Output Restricted Queue:*** This is also a simple queue. In this type of queue, the input can be taken from both ends but deletion can be done from only one end.
3. [***Circular Queue:***](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/introduction-to-circular-queue) This is a special type of queue where the last position is connected back to the first position. Here also the operations are performed in FIFO order.
4. [***Priority Queue***](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/priority-queue-set-1-introduction)***:*** A priority queue is a special queue where the elements are accessed based on the priority assigned to them. They are of two types:
    - ***Ascending Priority Queue:*** In Ascending Priority Queue, the elements are arranged in increasing order of their priority values. Element with the smallest priority value is popped first.
    - ***Descending Priority Queue:*** In the Descending Priority Queue, the elements are arranged in decreasing order of their priority values. Element with the largest priority is popped first.