#DSA #Strings #Easy #Counting 
___
# Problem
==Link:== [Leetcode Problem Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/check-if-one-string-swap-can-make-strings-equal/description/?envType=daily-question&envId=2025-02-05)
You are given two strings `s1` and `s2` of equal length. A **string swap** is an operation where you choose two indices in a string (not necessarily different) and swap the characters at these indices.
Return `true` _if it is possible to make both strings equal by performing **at most one string swap** on **exactly one** of the strings._ Otherwise, return `false`.

**Example 1:**
	**Input:** s1 = "bank", s2 = "kanb"
	**Output:** true
	**Explanation:** For example, swap the first character with the last character of s2 to make "bank".

**Example 2:**
	**Input:** s1 = "attack", s2 = "defend"
	**Output:** false
	**Explanation:** It is impossible to make them equal with one string swap.

**Example 3:**
	**Input:** s1 = "kelb", s2 = "kelb"
	**Output:** true
	**Explanation:** The two strings are already equal, so no string swap operation is required.

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= s1.length, s2.length <= 100`
- `s1.length == s2.length`
- `s1` and `s2` consist of only lowercase English letters.
___
# First Solution (Counting)
> Approach:
>1. Initialize Variables:
    - Use variables i and j to store the indices of characters that differ between the two strings. Initialize them to -1.
    - Use a counter cnt to count the number of differing positions.
>2. Iterate Through the Strings:
    - Traverse each character of the strings using a loop.
    - If characters at the current position differ, increment the counter cnt.
    - Store the index of the differing characters in i and j when cnt is 1 and 2 respectively.
>3. Check Conditions:
    - If cnt is 0, the strings are already equal, so return true.
    - If cnt is 2, check if swapping the characters at positions i and j in one string makes it equal to the other string.
    - If both conditions are met, return true; otherwise, return false.
```java
class Solution {
    public boolean areAlmostEqual(String s1, String s2) {
        int swapCounter = 0;
        int swapPosition1 = -1, swapPosition2 = -1;
        for (int i = 0; i < s1.length(); ++i) {
            if (s1.charAt(i) != s2.charAt(i)) {
                swapCounter++;
                if (swapPosition1 == -1) swapPosition1 = i;
                else swapPosition2 = i;
            }
        }
        if (swapCounter == 0 || (swapCounter == 2 && 
        s1.charAt(swapPosition1) == s2.charAt(swapPosition2) &&
        s1.charAt(swapPosition2) == s2.charAt(swapPosition1))) return true;
        return false;
    }
}
```
Time-Complexity: $O(n)$
Space-Complexity: $O(1)$