#DSA #Arrays #Easy#TwoPointers
___
# Problem
Given an integer array `nums` sorted in **non-decreasing order**, remove the duplicates in place such that each unique element appears only **once**. The **relative order** of the elements should be kept the **same**. Then return _the number of unique elements in_ `nums`.

Consider the number of unique elements of `nums` to be `k`, to get accepted, you need to do the following things:

- Change the array `nums` such that the first `k` elements of `nums` contain the unique elements in the order they were present in `nums` initially. The remaining elements of `nums` are not important as well as the size of `nums`.
- Return `k`.

**Custom Judge:**

The judge will test your solution with the following code:
```C
int[] nums = [...]; // Input array
int[] expectedNums = [...]; // The expected answer with correct length

int k = removeDuplicates(nums); // Calls your implementation

assert k == expectedNums.length;
for (int i = 0; i < k; i++) {
    assert nums[i] == expectedNums[i];
}
```

If all assertions pass, then your solution will be **accepted**.
- **Example 1:**
**Input:** nums = [1,1,2]
**Output:** 2, nums = [1,2,_]
**Explanation:** Your function should return k = 2, with the first two elements of nums being 1 and 2 respectively.
It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores).
- **Example 2:**
**Input:** nums = [0,0,1,1,1,2,2,3,3,4]
**Output:** 5, nums = [0,1,2,3,4,_,_,_,_,_]
**Explanation:** Your function should return k = 5, with the first five elements of nums being 0, 1, 2, 3, and 4 respectively.
It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores).
- **Constraints:**
	- `1 <= nums.length <= 3 * 104`
	- `-100 <= nums[i] <= 100`
	- `nums` is sorted in **non-decreasing** order.

___
# First Solution (Two pointers)
> Approach:
> The way to solve this problem is to create two variables. The first variable is used for searching for the duplicated number, and the second one is used for moving the number from the back of the array to the front.
```Java
class Solution {
    public int removeDuplicates(int[] nums) {
        int j = 1;
        for (int i = 1; i < nums.length; i++){
            if (nums[i] != nums[i-1]) {
                nums[j] = nums[i];
                j++;
            }
        }
        return j;
    }
}
```
***Improved:*** make it speed by when we access the **j** variables to check, we also increase j by plus it to one.
```Java
class Solution {
    public int removeDuplicates(int[] nums) {
        int j = 1;
        for (int i = 1; i < nums.length; i++){
            if (nums[i] != nums[i-1]) {
                nums[++j] = nums[i];
            }
        }
        return j;
    }
}
```
Time-Complexity: $O(n)$
Space-Complexity: $O(1)$