#DSA #Arrays #Easy 
___
# Problem
==Link:== [Leetcode Problem Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/check-if-array-is-sorted-and-rotated/description/?envType=daily-question&envId=2025-02-02)
Given an array of `nums`, return true if the array was originally sorted in non-decreasing order, then rotate **some** number of positions (including zero)_. Otherwise, return `false`.
There may be **duplicates** in the original array.
**Note:** An array `A` rotated by `x` positions results in an array `B` of the same length such that `A[i] == B[(i+x) % A.length]`, where `%` is the modulo operation.

**Example 1:**
	**Input:** nums = [3,4,5,1,2]
	**Output:** true
	**Explanation:** [1,2,3,4,5] is the original sorted array.
	You can rotate the array by x = 3 positions to begin on the the element of value 3: [3,4,5,1,2].
**Example 2:**
	**Input:** nums = [2,1,3,4]
	**Output:** false
	**Explanation:** There is no sorted array once rotated that can make nums.

**Example 3:**
	**Input:** nums = [1,2,3]
	**Output:** true
	**Explanation:** [1,2,3] is the original sorted array.
	To make nums, you can rotate the array by x = 0 positions (i.e., no rotation).
	
**Constraints:**
- `1 <= nums.length <= 100`
- `1 <= nums[i] <= 100`
___
# First Solution (Based on Bubble Sort)
> Approach:
> 1. **Refactor the question**: We need how many rotations (swap between two elements) to get a sorted array.
> 2. To determine whether the array is **sorted and rotated**, we need to check how many times an **inversion** (decrease in order) occurs.
> 	1. In a **perfectly sorted** array, **no inversions** exist.
> 	2. In a **sorted but rotated** array, **exactly one inversion** exists.
> 3. We count the number of **inversions** where `nums[i] > nums[(i + 1) % n]`.
> 	1. If **count > 1**, the array is not sorted and rotated.
> 	2. If **count ≤ 1**, return `true`.

Since the array is circular, we must check the last element with the first to account for rotations.
```java
class Solution {
    public boolean check(int[] nums) {
        int count = 0;
        int n = nums.length;
        for (int i = 0; i < n; ++i) {
            if (nums[i] > nums[(i + 1) % n]) ++count;
            if (count > 1) return false;
        }
        return true;
    }
}
```
Time-Complexity: $O(n)$
Space-Complexity: $O(1)$ 