#DSA #Arrays #Easy #Queue #Maths 
___
# Problem
==Link:== [Leetcode Problem Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/time-needed-to-buy-tickets/description/?envType=problem-list-v2&envId=queue)
There are `n` people in a line queuing to buy tickets, where the `0th` person is at the **front** of the line and the `(n - 1)th` person is at the **back** of the line.

You are given a **0-indexed** integer array `tickets` of length `n` where the number of tickets that the `ith` person would like to buy is `tickets[i]`.

Each person takes **exactly 1 second** to buy a ticket. A person can only buy **1 ticket at a time** and has to go back to **the end** of the line (which happens **instantaneously**) in order to buy more tickets. If a person does not have any tickets left to buy, the person will **leave** the line.

Return the **time taken** for the person **initially** at position **k** (0-indexed) to finish buying tickets.

**Example 1:**
	**Input:** tickets = [2,3,2], k = 2
	**Output:** 6
	**Explanation:**
	- The queue starts as [2,3,2], where the kth person is underlined.
	- After the person at the front has bought a ticket, the queue becomes [3,2,1] at 1 second.
	- Continuing this process, the queue becomes [2,1,2] at 2 seconds.
	- Continuing this process, the queue becomes [1,2,1] at 3 seconds.
	- Continuing this process, the queue becomes [2,1] at 4 seconds. Note: the person at the front left the queue.
	- Continuing this process, the queue becomes [1,1] at 5 seconds.
	- Continuing this process, the queue becomes [1] at 6 seconds. The kth person has bought all their tickets, so return 6.

**Example 2:**
	**Input:** tickets = [5,1,1,1], k = 0
	**Output:** 8
	**Explanation:**
	- The queue starts as [5,1,1,1], where the kth person is underlined.
	- After the person at the front has bought a ticket, the queue becomes [1,1,1,4] at 1 second.
	- Continuing this process for 3 seconds, the queue becomes [4] at 4 seconds.
	- Continuing this process for 4 seconds, the queue becomes [] at 8 seconds. The kth person has bought all their tickets, so return 8.

**Constraints:**
- `n == tickets.length`
- `1 <= n <= 100`
- `1 <= tickets[i] <= 100`
- `0 <= k < n`
___
# First Solution (Queue)
> Approach:
> 1. We used the `queue` to track the `index` of the array.
> 2. If the `queue` is not empty, we increase the `time`, subtract the number of the `tickets` that the `index` needs to buy, and add it to the end of the `queue`
```java
class Solution {
    public int timeRequiredToBuy(int[] tickets, int k) {
        Queue<Integer> queue = new LinkedList<>();
        int time = 0;
        for (int index = 0; index < tickets.length; ++index) {
            queue.add(index);
        }
        while (!queue.isEmpty()) {
            ++time;
            int index = queue.poll();
            --tickets[index];

            if (tickets[k] == 0) {
                return time;
            }
            if (tickets[index] > 0) {
                queue.add(index);
            }
            
        }
        return time;
    }
}
```
Time-Complexity: $O(sum(array))$
Space-Complexity: $O(n)$
___
# Second Solution (Math)
> Approach:
> 1. We imagine that if the tickets the person needs to buy are lower than target, need all the time of that person to let them buy all the tickets.
> 2. If that person the first time the queue behind you the time `k` buys the ticket is `k - 1` or the times that person buys if they are smaller.
```java
class Solution {
    public int timeRequiredToBuy(int[] tickets, int k) {
        int total = 0;

        for (int i = 0; i < tickets.length; i++) {
            if (i <= k) {
                total += Math.min(tickets[i], tickets[k]);
            } else {
                total += Math.min(tickets[i], tickets[k] - 1);
            }
        }

        return total;
    }
}
```
Time-Complexity: $O(n)$
Space-Complexity: $O(n)$