#DSA #Arrays #Easy #Counting 
___
# Problem
==Link:== [Leetcode Problem Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/lemonade-change/description/?envType=problem-list-v2&envId=array)
At a lemonade stand, each lemonade costs `$5`. Customers queue to buy from you and order one at a time (in the order specified by bills). Each customer buys only one lemonade and pays with either a `$5`, `$10`, or `$20` bill. You must provide the correct change to each customer so that the net transaction is that the customer pays `$5`.

Note that you do not have any change in hand at first.

Given an integer array of `bills` where `bills[i]` is the bill the `ith` customer pays, return `true` _if you can provide every customer with the correct change, or_ `false` _otherwise_.

**Example 1:**
	**Input:** bills = [5,5,5,10,20]
	**Output:** true
	**Explanation:** 
		From the first 3 customers, we collect three $5 bills in order.
		From the fourth customer, we collect a $10 bill and give back a $5.
		For the fifth customer, we give a $10 bill and a $5 bill.
		Since all customers got the correct change, we output true.

**Example 2:**
	**Input:** bills = [5,5,10,10,20]
	**Output:** false
	**Explanation:** 
		From the first two customers in order, we collect two $5 bills.
		For the next two customers in order, we collect a $10 bill and give back a $5 bill.
		For the last customer, we can not give the change of $15 back because we only have two $10 bills.
		Since not every customer received the correct change, the answer is false.

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= bills.length <= 105`
- `bills[i]` is either `5`, `10`, or `20`.
___
# First Solution 
> Approach
>1. Storing the numbers of `five` and `ten` dollars
>2. Create a loop: `int bill: bills`
>	1. If the `bill` = 5, we increase `five` by one.
>	2. If the `bill` = 10, we decrease `five` by one and increase `ten` by one. Check if `five` is less than 0, and return `false`.
>	3. if the `bill` = 20, we can decrease `five` by one and `ten` by one or decrease `five` by three. If it can not subtract, we can return `false`.
>3. If the loop finishes, we can return `true`;
```java
class Solution {
    public boolean lemonadeChange(int[] bills) {
        int total = 0;
        int five = 0, ten = 0;
        for(int bill: bills) {
            if (bill == 5) five++;
            else if (bill == 10) {
                ++ten;
                if(five >= 1) five--; 
                else return false;
            }
            else {
                if (five >= 1 && ten >= 1) {
                    --five;
                    --ten;  
                }
                else if(five >= 3) five -= 3;
                else return false;
            }
        }
        return true;
    }
}
```
Time-Complexity: $O(n)$
Space-Complexity: $O(1)$ 